The course will cover the most important topics in probabilistic modelling and unsupervised learning, and provide a thorough basis for understanding extensions, further developments and applications.While the precise topics will vary slightly from year to year, the core content will revolve around:- probabilistic graphical models- exact inference- learning from data- methods for approximate inference and learningThe course will be delivered in a series of lectures and exercises. In addition to working through exercises with pencil and paper, the students will be expected to complete some programming exercises to gain experience with implementing and using the material taught in the course. When dealing with real world data, we often need to deal with uncertainty. For example, short segments of speech may be ambiguous, and we need to take into account context in order to make sense of an utterance. Probability theory provides a rigorous method for representing and reasoning with uncertain knowledge. The course covers two main areas (i) the process of inference with probabilistic models and (ii) learning probabilistic models from data.Its aim is to provide a firm grounding in probabilistic modelling and reasoning, and to give a basis which will allow students to go on to develop their interests in more specific areas, such as statistical language modelling, bioinformatics, computational neuroscience, or computer vision, to name a few examples. MSc students must register for this course, while Undergraduate students must register for INFR11235 instead.This course is open to all Informatics students including those on joint degrees. For external students where this course is not listed in your DPT, please seek special permission from the course organiser.Mathematics prerequisites:1. Probability theory: Discrete and continuous univariate random variables. Expectation, variance. Joint and conditional distributions. Univariate and multivariate Gaussian distribution2. Linear algebra: Vectors and matrices: definitions, addition. Matrix multiplication, matrix inversion. Eigenvectors, determinants, quadratic forms3. Calculus: Functions of several variables. Partial differentiation. Multivariate maxima and minima. Integration: need to know definitions, including multivariate integration4. Special functions: Log, exp are fundamental5 . Geometry: Basics of lines, planes and hyperplanes. Coordinate geometry of circle, sphere, ellipse, ellipsoid and n-dimensional generalizationsProgramming prerequisite: A basic level of programming is assumed and not covered in lectures.There will be some assumption that people are familiar with machine learning concepts.