The course covers practical aspects of machine learning, and will focus on practical and experimental issues in deep learning and neural networks. Topics that are covered include:* Feed-forward network architectures* Optimisation and learning rules* Regularisation and normalisation* Neural networks for classification* Autoencoders* Convolutional Neural Networks* Recurrent Neural NetworksMLP is coursework-based, with lectures to support the additional material required to carry out the practical. Students who complete this course will have experience in the design, implementation, training, and evaluation of machine learning systems.MLP is a two-semester course.  During Semester 1 the course will focus on developing a deep learning framework based on experiments using the task of classification of handwritten digits using the well-known MNIST dataset. The course uses a Python software framework, and a series of Jupyter notebooks. There is a series of ten weekly lectures in Semester 1 to provide the required theoretical support to the practical work.Semester 2 will be based on small group projects, with a focus on using deep neural networks within the context of a miniproject, using an open source toolkit such as TensorFlow or PyTorch. Lectures in Semester 2 will support the coursework, and also provide insights to the current state of the art in this very fast moving area. This course is focused on the implementation and evaluation of machine learning systems, and is lab-based. Students who do this course will obtain experience in the design, implementation, training, and evaluation of machine learning systems.Semester 1 comprises lectures, labs, and individual coursework.Semester 2 is based around small group projects, and also includes tutorials and guest lectures.Note: this course is not a stand-alone introduction to machine learning. Please see 'Other Requirements' for details. MSc students must register for this course, while Undergraduate students must register for INFR11223 instead.For Informatics students only (including those on joint degrees), or by special permission of the School.It is recommended that students have taken a previous course in machine learning (or with significant machine learning content). Those who have not MUST register for one of the co-requisites noted above.Familiarity with basic mathematics, including algebra and calculus is essential. A reasonable knowledge of computational, logical, geometric and set-theoretic concepts is assumed. Working knowledge of vectors and matrices is also necessary. A basic grasp of probability and partial differentiation, is also required. Students should have programming experience. Programming in a numerical language (Python / Numpy) will be required: previous experience in Python is not mandatory.