Many problems in maths and science are solved by reduction to a system of simultaneous linear equations in a number of variables. Even for problems which cannot be solved in this way, it is often possible to obtain an approximate solution by solving a system of simultaneous linear equations, giving the "best possible linear approximation''.  
  The branch of maths treating simultaneous linear equations is called linear algebra. The module contains a theoretical algebraic core, whose main idea is that of a vector space and of a linear map from one vector space to another. It discusses the concepts of a basis in a vector space, the dimension of a vector space, the image and kernel of a linear map, the rank and nullity of a linear map, and the representation of a linear map by means of a matrix.  
  These theoretical ideas have many applications, which will be discussed in the module. These applications include:  
  Solutions of simultaneous linear equations. Properties of vectors. Properties of matrices, such as rank, row reduction, eigenvalues and eigenvectors. Properties of determinants and ways of calculating them.  
  
 Module web page This is an indicative module outline only to give an indication of the sort of topics that may be covered. Actual sessions held may differ.
    
   The vector space R^n, including a geometric description of vector addition in R^2.  Fields. Definition of a vector space V over a field. The space spanned by a subset of V. Linear dependence and independence. Bases. Dimension. Subspaces. Dual spaces and dual bases.  Linear maps f:V-&gt;W. Isomorphism of vector spaces. Any n-dimensional vector space over F is isomorphic to R^n. Examples of linear maps, including differentiation and integration as linear maps on spaces of functions or polynomials.  Matrices. Algebraic operations on matrices. Reduction of a matrix using row and column operations. Application to the solution of linear equations. Rank. Row rank = Column rank.  The relation between linear maps and matrices. the matrix of a linear map with respect to a given basis. Change of basis changes A to PAQ^{-1}. The kernal and image of f:V-&gt;W. The rank and nullity of f.  Determinants, defined by ∑σϵSn sign σ(∏ai,σ(i)). Det(AB) = Det(A)Det(B) (proof either in general or in the cases n=1,2,3). Submatrices, minors, cofactors, the adjoint matrix. Rules for calculating determinants. The inverse of a matrix. Ax=0 has non-zero solution if and only if det(A)=0. Determinantal rank.  Eigenvalues and eigenvectors. Definition and examples. Their geometric significance. Diagonalisation of matrices with distinct eigenvalues.  Inner product spaces and isometries. Euclidean spaces. Orthogonal transformations and matrices. To provide a working understanding of matrices and vector spaces for later modules to build on and to teach students practical techniques and algorithms for fundamental matrix operations and solving linear equations. Students will acquire key reasoning and problem solving skills which will empower them to address new problems with confidence.