Many problems in mathematics cannot be solved explicitly. So one resorts to finding approximate solutions and estimate the error between a true solution and the approximate one. Indeed, one may even be able to demonstrate the existence of a solution by exhibiting a sequence of approximate solutions that converge to an exact solution. The study of limiting processes is the central theme in mathematical analysis. It involves the quantification of the notion of limit and precise formulation of intuitive notions of infinite sums, functions, continuity and the calculus. You will study ideas of the mathematicians Cauchy, Dirichlet, Weierstrass, Bolzano, D'Alembert, Riemann and others, concerning sequences and series in term one, continuity and differentiability in term two.  
  
 Module web page This is an indicative module outline only to give an indication of the sort of topics that may be covered. Actual sessions held may differ.
    
   Decimal expressions and real numbers; the geometric series and conversion of recurring decimals into fractions.  Convergence of a nonrecurring decimal and the completeness axiom in the form that an increasing sequence which is bounded above converges to a real number.  The completeness axiom as the main distinguishing feature between the rationals and the reals; approxiamtion of irrationals by rationals and vice-versa.  Inequalities.  Formal definition of sequence and subsequence.  Limit of a sequence of real numbers; Cauchy sequences and the Cauchy criterion.  Series: (a) Series with positive terms (b) Alternating series  The number e both as lim(1+(1/n))^n and as 1 + 1 + (1/2!) + (1/3!) + ... .  Bounded and unbounded sets. Sups and infs.  Continuity  Properties of continuous functions  Continuous Limits  Differentiability  Properties of differentiable functions  Higher order derivatives  Power Series  Taylor’s Theorem  The Classical Functions of Analysis  Upper and Lower Limits See learning outcomes Students will acquire key reasoning and problem solving skills which will empower them to address new problems with confidence.